# Project 1 - ReviewBook: Website for Reviewing and Rating Books

This project was created in fulfillment of HarvardX's "CS50W: Web Programming with Python and JavaScript" course on edX.  The project is a book review webpage that allows users to sign up, view, and write reviews for books on the website database.  The project was written in Python with the database constructed with PostgreSQL, and the contents were displayed using HTML.  Additional notable tools and languages used in this project were Flask, Heroku, and SQLAlchemy.  The primary objective of the project was to create a dynamic webpage built on Python using Flask.

## Requirements

The resulting webpage can be viewed by pulling this repository, installing the requirements, and launching Flask.  

1.  First, requirements.txt needs to be installed.  This can be done with the following terminal command in the repository folder:
```
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```
2.  Once the requirements are installed, a PostgreSQL database location needs to be created.  In this project, a PostgreSQL database was hosted on Heroku, and a database URL was generated.  This database URL is required in order to store the website data.

3.  Once the requirements are installed and a database URL was obtained, the computer environment variables need to be set.  This can be done with the following terminal command in the repository folder:
```
export FLASK_APP=application.py
export FLASK_DEBUG=1
export DATABASE_URL=(INSERT YOUR DATABASE URL HERE)
```
Do note that the user must put their own database URL in the statement above for the website application to work.

Once these requirements

## Webpage Details

The following notes details what each webpage consists of and how they were created.

### application.py

This is the home page of the resume.  It has simple headers with a form that allows the users to select one of many different generated resumes.  On pressing the "Go" button, the received input from the form is processed by a short JavaScript that launches the associated webpage.  GitHub's native CSS styling was imported, and an additional CSS file (indexstyle.css) was included to tweak the style to fit to taste.

### import.py

This is the resume as pure HTML.  No CSS styling was applied.  The bare bone resume is a series of divisions with rows and tables, tagged as needed.

### cvcust.html

This is the resume with custom CSS applied.  The page is identical to cv.html, except a stylesheet was imported as a reference.  This CSS stylesheet (personalstyles.css) was written from scratch.  The objective of this style wasn't to create and aesthetically pleasing page, rather, the objective was to exercise sufficient CSS styling until I was comfortable with how CSS affects HTML.  As such, a media query was added to invert the colors once the webpage was smaller than 899px.  Additionally, styles were added to IDs, classes, and tags to see how the styling affected one another.

### cvboot.html

This is the resume with Bootstrap CSS styling applied in accordance to the requirements of the project.  The objective was to take advantage of the classes built into Bootstrap CSS.  As a result, the HTML for this resume has newly defined classes that allow us to set the size of columns.  Because of the built-in styling in Bootstrap, the resulting resume is tragically more elegant when compared to my personally generated CSS..

### cvgithub.html

This is the resume with GitHub's CSS styling applied.  It was not part of the requirements of the project, but I wanted to apply a CSS style to a bare bone HTML file to get an elegant looking webpage swiftly.

### cvsass.html

This is the resume with CSS styling generated by SASS.  The CSS (stylesass.css) was created by writing a .scss file (stylesass.scss) using SASS syntax and generating the CSS using the SASS tool.  The three main objectives of this exercise was to utilize inheritance, nesting, and variables to allow quick changes to the CSS style.

## Places to Improve

While the index page as well as the CV pages have CSS styling applied to them, the hyperlinks to detailed descriptions of each item are still in HTML only.  Styling could be applied to those pages to create an overall more aesthetically resume webpage.  Also, because this project aimed to practice different approaches to styling HTML, the HTML base file changes slightly for each theme.  The next time I write an HTML page, I will be conscious of the structure of and tags in the HTML to allow seamless styling transitions if needed.

## Concluding Remarks

This project--creating a webpage with styling from scratch--allowed me to have a detailed overview of the front-end of web programming.  I learned how to take write an HTML page from scratch, and deploy the page as a webpage on GitHub pages.  This is a valuable tool to have in the future, when I have other projects that I would like to share with the community.  I also learned how to stylize webpages using CSS.  I found that I while I get excited for creating a webpage, I do not get excited for styling one.  In the future, when I create webpages to show case my projects, I will likely import CSS styling to my HTML page to make the information presentable, as I found the act of writing CSS from scratch to be particularly tedious.  Overall, the project allowed me to exercise a broad range of skills related to web programming, and I think I have better understood what kind of programming I get excited over.

### Exercised Skills/Tools/Languages
- HTML/CSS
- JavaScript
- Git/GitHub Pages
- SASS
- Bootstrap
